Many programming languages exist today: C, C++, Microsoft Visual Basic, Python, C#, Java, PHP and so on.

1. C:

C is a general-purpose, imperative computer programming language. It supports structured programming,
lexical variable scope and recursion, while a static type system prevents many unintended operations.
By design, C provides constructs that map efficiently to typical machine instructions, and therefore
it has found lasting use in applications that had formerly been coded in assembly language, including
operating systems as well as various application software for computers ranging from supercomputers
to embedded systems.

2. C++

C++ is a general-purpose programming language. It has imperative, object-oriented and generic programming
features, while also providing the facilities for low-level memory manipulation. It is designed with a
bias toward system programming (e.g., for use in embedded systems or operating system kernels), with
performance, efficiency and flexibility of use as its design requirements. C++ has also been found useful
in many other contexts, including desktop applications, servers (e.g. e-commerce, web search or SQL servers),
performance-critical applications (e.g. telephone switches or space probes), and entertainment software. C++
is a compiled language, with implementations of it available on many platforms and provided by various
organizations, including the FSF, LLVM, Microsoft and Intel.

3. Microsoft Visual Basic

Visual Basic is a third-generation event-driven programming language and integrated development environment
(IDE) from Microsoft for its COM programming model first released in 1991. Microsoft intended Visual Basic
to be relatively easy to learn and use. Visual Basic was derived from BASIC and enables the rapid application
development (RAD) of graphical user interface (GUI) applications, access to databases using Data Access
Objects, Remote Data Objects, or ActiveX Data Objects, and creation of ActiveX controls and objects.
A programmer can create an application using the components provided by the Visual Basic program itself.
Over time the community of programmers have developed new third party components, keeping this programming
language to modern standards. Programs written in Visual Basic can also use the Windows API, which requires
external function declarations.

4. Python

Python is a widely used general-purpose, high-level programming language. Its design philosophy emphasizes code
readability, and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code than would be possible
in languages such as C++ or Java. The language provides constructs intended to enable clear programs on both a
small and large scale. Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative and
functional programming or procedural styles. It features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management and
has a large and comprehensive standard library. Python interpreters are available for installation on many operating
systems, allowing Python code execution on a wide variety of systems. Using third-party tools, such as Py2exe or
Pyinstaller, Python code can be packaged into stand-alone executable programs for some of the most popular operating
systems, allowing for the distribution of Python-based software for use on those environments without requiring the
installation of a Python interpreter.

5. C#

C# (pronounced as see sharp) is a multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing, imperative,
declarative, functional, generic, object-oriented (class-based), and component-oriented programming disciplines.
It was developed by Microsoft within its .NET initiative and later approved as a standard by Ecma (ECMA-334) and
ISO (ISO/IEC 23270:2006). C# is one of the programming languages designed for the Common Language Infrastructure.
C# is intended to be a simple, modern, general-purpose, object-oriented programming language.

6.Java

Java is a functional computer programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object-oriented, and
specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended to let application
developers "write once, run anywhere" (WORA), meaning that code that runs on one platform does not need to be
recompiled to run on another. Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode that can run on any Java
virtual machine (JVM) regardless of computer architecture. Java is, as of 2015, one of the most popular programming
languages in use, particularly for client-server web applications, with a reported 9 million developers.
The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++, but it has fewer low-level facilities than either of them.

7. PHP

PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming
language. As of January 2013, PHP was installed on more than 240 million websites (39% of those sampled) and 2.1
million web servers. Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994, the reference implementation of PHP (powered by
the Zend Engine) is now produced by The PHP Group. While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, it now stands
for PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor, which is a recursive backronym. PHP code can be simply mixed with HTML code,
or it can be used in combination with various templating engines and web frameworks. PHP code is usually processed
by a PHP interpreter, which is usually implemented as a web server's native module or a Common Gateway Interface
(CGI) executable. After the PHP code is interpreted and executed, the web server sends resulting output to its client,
usually in form of a part of the generated web page; for example, PHP code can generate a web page's HTML code, an image,
or some other data. PHP has also evolved to include a command-line interface (CLI) capability and can be used in
standalone graphical application.